---
title: Color
permalink: /documentation/color
layout: documentation
---

{: .component-summary .no-margin }
#### Designed for use in web and mobile applications, the color palette is primarily based on:

{: .component-summary .cozy .list}
- Alignment with the use of color in modern web applications
- Support for accessibility

### Base Color Palette

<clr-color-palette-base></clr-color-palette-base>

### Stoplight Colors

<clr-color-palette-stoplight></clr-color-palette-stoplight>

### Highlight Colors

<clr-color-palette-highlight></clr-color-palette-highlight>

### Text Contrast

Clarity's SASS library ships with color functions that can test background and text combinations against the WCAG AA accessibility standard. This standard establishes a minimum contrast for users with a visual impairment.

To use these functions, import the <code class="clr-code">[PATH_TO_CLARITY]/src/color/color.clarity.scss</code> file into a SCSS/SASS file in your project.

The text color functions in Clarity perform a lookup against a customizable set of color contrasts in the color palette. To get a text color, you would use the following SASS function:

#### clr-getTextColor([background], [typeOfText], [fontWeight], [fontSize], [colorOfText])

###### Parameters

**background**
A hex color of the background the text will appear over. Defaults to white. Theoretically, it could handle rgb() or hsl() values but that is untested. rgba() and color strings are likely not going to work.

**typeOfText**
_(Optional)_ Defaults to "text". Accepted types are:

{: .list}
- **text:** Default darkness for text color.
- **subtext:** A text color 1 or 2 shades removed from text.
- **hover-text:** Text color for links.
- **hover-text-hovered:** Text color for links in a hovered state.
- **hover-text-clicked:** Text color for links in an active state.
- **hover-text-active:** An alias for the hover-text-clicked type above.
- **lightest:** If possible, the accessible color closest to white. Otherwise, the lightest accessible color against the background.
- **darkest:** If possible, the accessible color closest to black. Otherwise, the darkest accessible color against the background.
- **black:** Returns black if it is accessible against the background.
- **white:** Returns white if it is accessible against the background.

**fontWeight**
_(Optional)_ Defaults to "normal". Accepted types are: bold, thin, and normal.

**fontSize**
_(Optional)_ Defaults to "normal". Accepted types are: big, small, and normal.

**colorOfText**
_(Optional)_ Defaults to "grays". Determines the family of colors that the text color will be pulled from. Accepted types are:

{: .list}
- **grays:** The neutral palette.
- **neutrals:** The neutral palette.
- **blues:** The less-saturated blues used for backgrounds ("section blues").
- **tinted-neutrals:** An alias for "blues" above.
- **action-blues:** Saturated blue palette used for links and buttons.
- **action-purples:** Purple palette that may one day be used for links and buttons.
- **purples:** Purple palette that may one day be used for links and buttons.
- **reds:** Stoplight red color palette.
- **greens:** Stoplight green color palette.
- **yellows:** Stoplight yellow color palette with some oranges in the midtones and browns in the darker shades.

All parameters are optional. And the color lookup is fairly robust. Worst case is it returns either a pure white or pure black based off whether it is given a light or dark background.

### Luminance Test

The WCAG AA standard compares colors' luminance and chromaticity to establish a contrast ratio between them. The following set of tables demonstrates the accuracy of the SASS functions the Clarity team has built to test contrast.

In the tables below, a hard-coded "expected" value is compared against a value generated by the Clarity color contrast functions.

<clr-color-demo-luminance></clr-color-demo-luminance>

### Contrast Test

The tables below demonstrate expected values for Clarity's color contrast utilities.

<clr-color-demo-contrast></clr-color-demo-contrast>

{% comment %}
    Design guidelines start here...
{% endcomment %}

### Base Colors

Clarity has five base colors.  Other colors within the palette are derivatives of a base color, meaning they are complementary in a monochromatic, triad, or quadratic relationship:

{: .list}
- The neutral colors are for text and backgrounds. The default text color is #565656.  The default background color is #FAFAFA.
- The action colors are for clickable items, such as buttons and links. Action Blue, #007CBB, is reserved for buttons and links.

### Stoplight Colors

The stoplight colors are for indicating error conditions, warnings, and successes. Significant colors include:

{: .list}
- Stoplight Green, #318700, for positive actions.
- Stoplight Red, #E62700, for warnings and errors.

### Highlight Colors

The highlight colors are intended for use in charts, highlighting search results, and badging. These colors stand out against Clarity's primary colors. Don't use highlight colors in large blocks.
